# Book Feedback
#sidebar sidebar

= IBook Feedback =

This page contains reader feedback to the book 'JBoss Drools Business Rules'.


= Details =

Add your content here.  Format your content with:
  * Text in *bold* or _italic_
  * Headings, paragraphs, and lists
  * Automatic links to other wiki pages
What I didn't like was the use of IE and Excel. Same results could be achieved with open source software, too. But that's a minor one ;)

All in all, definitely a guide for non technical users, but also for developers, who have given the Drools docs a (second and third) try and still require a helping hand to sort it out how this Drools thing works and how to use it properly.

=========================================
=========================================
=========================================
I've found following issues.

minor:
page 21, section 6:
The mailing lists ... that your pleas for assistance ...
'pleas' - should be 'plea'

page 57, bullet 5.:
If you have any problems ... then run the Run the command ...
'Run the' should be removed

page 106, section 2:
This is no: ...
should be:
There is no: ...

page 119, last section
... way of wiring the same ...
typo, should be 'writing'

page 122, section 6:
... from that example (sales.java), ...
typo, should be uppercase s: '(Sales.java)', ...

page 123:
$mySales : Sales(name == "acme corp" name == "beta corp")
missing '||', should be:
$mySales : Sales(name == "acme corp" || name == "beta corp")

page 128, note:
When
should be lowercase w: when

page 191, section 1:
... more Drools-like language $patent : Patient()
typo in patient, should be
... more Drools-like language $patient : Patient()

page 226, section 1:
Change the director
typo, should be:
Change the directory

page 232, section 8 and
page 236, section 2:
typo in RuleRunner.Java, should be RuleRunner.java (lowercase 'J')

=========================================
=========================================
=========================================
major:
page 100:
bad screenshot (it's a copy of the screen shot from page 108) - this screen shot is then referred to on page 102.

page 104, note:
What exactly is this working memory? ...
I don't see the term working memory mentioned before ,so either it should be changed to:
What exactly is a working memory? ...
Or this note is in a wrong place or some text about the working memory has been deleted/moved.

page 141, 2nd example (collect)
This won't compile, besides the typo in OoomplaLoompaDate this is rule has a wrong syntax, you cannot use collect this way.
Here's a working one:

rule 'collect rule'
       when
               $numberofShipmentsOnDay : java.util.ArrayList() from collect (
                       ChocolateShipment (
                               shipmentDate == (new OoompaLoompaDate(1,1,2009))
                       )
               )
then
       log.info("Boxes shipped today:"+$numberofShipmentsOnDay);
end

=========================================
=========================================
=========================================
critical:

The sample 'droolsbook_chapter3_sample.zip' contains a repository that can no longer be built by Guvnor. This affects the current version of Guvnor, but the reader has no chance to download the version the author used (I guess some CR or milestone release - no longer available).
The rule flow is broken as well as the DSL. This sample is build up on code that is no longer developed so the user cannot download the current working version. I would suggest to fix this (quite easy, just update the rule flow and remove colons in the DSL - they have now special meaning) and reupload the sample.


page 61, section 2:
The search screen...
Ooook, that's a tricky one. In one word, in my opinion that section doesn't tell the truth. Maybe you could pass it to the author and he could rephrase it?
You cannot use the search feature to look for versioned assets. Versioned assets are something different then archived assets. Version management is done by the underlying JCR implementation and is available from the assets view (under [Show more info...] -> Version history). Saving a new version of a rule does not *archive* the previous version.
You have (currently) no chance to search for previous versions of an asset, however I think that might be a good idea and would be worth a jira under the GUVNOR project.
To sum it up, IMHO the last sentence about the 'Include archived items in list' should be rephrased and tell that you are able to search for assets that have been archived, besides (the *current* version of) assets that are stored in a package.


page 108, section 2:
The answer is: never. ...
Either it's wrong worded or I don't understand what the author meant. The explanation of the rule is IMHO wrong. The rule does *not* say that it should fire when sales is greater than or equal to 100 and the customer sounds like 'acme' and the customer name matches 'acme corp'. The rule says that if there are sales, where one sale is greater than or equal to 100, one sale has a customer name that sounds like 'acme' and one sale has a customer name that matches 'acme corp' then fire. The rule engine doesn't care if these are 3 different sales objects, two different, or if it's a single object.
So I can easilly make this rule fire, just by inserting 3 different sales satisfying the restrictions.
Maybe the author meant that this rule cannot be fired with just one sales fact - that would be obviously true, but that's not the picture I get from reading this section. But that's just my opinion.



page 260, section 1:
If this unit test runs correctly, only one event will match the rule...

The previous pages show the first part of a test. If you look carefully at the code, you will notice that the statement above isn't true. That sentence summarize the *whole* test, which is not shown in the book. When I read it I was quite surprised of this conclusion, lost some time, until I went to my computer to download the test case to see it as a whole.
